import random

#Class pathways
Warrior_Pathways = [

    #Warrior pathway the outcast gladiator

    '''
    \nYou do not remember your family, only the grime-covered cells of the Pits, a brutal colosseum in the desert city of Kael. 
    You were raised with a blade in your hand and a shield on your arm, your life a series of bloody, glorious victories and agonizing defeats. 
    The crowds chanted your name, but outside the ring, you were just another slave. 
    One night, a riot erupts in the prison barracks, giving you a chance for freedom. 
    You escape, covered in dust and blood, a stolen, chipped sword your only possession. 
    The city guards are on your trail, and you now face a world more vast and unpredictable than the fighting pits you once called home.

    Your quest begins: You are a seasoned warrior, but one with no true place in the world. 
    Your first goal is not glory, but survival. 
    You must find a way to disappear from the city, avoiding the vigilant guard patrols and the even more dangerous bounty hunters who seek the prestige of capturing an escaped gladiator.
    ''', 

    #Warrior pathway the oath bound knight

    '''\n
    You were once a squire in service to the noble Order of the Gilded Lance, sworn to protect the realm's sacred relics and its people. 
    Your days were filled with rigorous training, prayer, and selfless deeds. 
    On a routine patrol, your company was ambushed by a shadowy cult known as the 'Veiled Hand.' 
    The battle was a bloodbath, and you alone survived, left for dead amongst your fallen comrades. 
    The cultists stole the relic your company was tasked to protect: the Heart of the Dragon, a crystalline shard of immense power. 
    The Order believes you died in the ambush, and to return would be to admit your failure. 
    The weight of your broken oath is a heavier burden than any armor. 

    Your quest begins: Filled with a mix of grief, rage, and shame, you embark on a lone mission of vengeance and redemption. 
    Your journey is to reclaim the stolen relic and destroy the Veiled Hand, earning back your honor and proving that a knight's oath is never truly broken.
    ''',

    #Warrior pathway the clans warrior exile

    '''\n
    In the icy mountains of the North, your life was defined by the strength of your clan. 
    You learned to hunt, fight, and survive in the harsh wilderness, a shield-maiden (or shield-thane) respected for your ferocity in battle. 
    However, a bitter feud erupted over who would lead the clan, and you were wrongfully accused of betraying your Jarl. 
    Faced with execution, you were given a choice: face the blade or walk the path of exile, never to return. 
    You chose exile, leaving behind everything you held dear and casting your ancestral weapon into the frigid sea as a symbol of your broken ties. 
    Now, adrift in the civilized lands to the south, you are an outsider, a wild spirit lost in a world of bustling markets and soft-handed people.

    Your quest begins: The cold has given way to warmer air, and the roar of battle has been replaced by the chatter of strangers. 
    With no home to return to and your honor stained, you must find a new purpose. 
    Your first step is to acquire a new weapon and find a place in this new world, all while keeping the memory of your unjust exile close at hand. 
    The warrior's path is all you know, but you must forge it anew.'''
]

Random_Warrior_Pathway = random.choice(Warrior_Pathways)

Mage_Pathways = [

    # Mage pathway the scholarly outcast

    '''
    \nYou are a disgraced former student of the prestigious Silverwood Academy, banished for a forbidden magical experiment that went wrong. 
    Your knowledge of arcane arts is vast, but your power is unrefined, raw, and deemed too dangerous by the academy's conservative elders. 
    You now live on the fringes of society, hoarding your rare tomes in a dusty, forgotten tower, struggling to control the wild magic within you.

    Your quest begins: A traveling merchant brings you a curious artifact—a small, intricate rune that pulsates with dangerous, chaotic energy. 
    He found it near the ancient ruins where your academy experiment was performed. 
    The merchant offers to trade a rare spellbook for your help, but he doesn't realize the object is a fragment of your failed experiment and is threatening to destabilize the entire region.
    ''',

    #Mage pathway the gifted scion

    '''
    \nYou are the youngest member of a powerful family of elemental mages, celebrated for their ancient, controlled form of spellcasting. 
    Unlike your kin, you lack the patience for their rigid traditions, and your magic manifests in unusual, unpredictable ways—a sign that you may have inherited an uncontrolled, volatile lineage. 
    To prove your worth and curb your chaotic magic, you have been sent on a coming-of-age journey to find the legendary "Eye of the Storm," a magical conduit that supposedly stabilizes untamed power.

    Your quest begins: The journey begins at the base of the Whisperwind Peaks, where your family believes the Eye of the Storm is located. 
    A series of unseasonal, violent magical storms has been ravaging the valleys below, and the local village elder believes an errant elemental is to blame. 
    He asks for your help, recognizing your elemental lineage.
    ''',

    #Mage pathway the reluctant ritualist

    '''
    \nMagic, in your life, was not a choice but a burden. 
    As the chosen Ritualist of your small, isolated community, your purpose is to perform a series of complex rituals that maintain the magical barrier protecting your village from the surrounding, hostile wilderness. 
    You perform the rites by rote, having memorized every step and gesture, but you've never truly understood the magic itself. 
    You feel like a cog in a machine, with no real power of your own

    Your quest begins: One morning, you awake to an unsettling silence. 
    The constant low hum of the magical barrier is gone. 
    As you investigate, the village elder reveals the terrible truth: a key component of the ritual, the "Heartstone," has been stolen. 
    Now, the barrier is fading, and strange, mutated creatures from the wilderness are beginning to creep into the village outskirts.
    '''
]

Random_Mage_Pathway = random.choice(Mage_Pathways)

Ranger_Pathways = [
    
    #Ranger pathway the outcast warden
    
    '''
    \nYour life began as a member of the elite Forest Wardens, a guild of rangers sworn to protect the Whispering Woods. 
    But a tragic mishap during a routine patrol—the accidental discovery of a ritual site you were ill-equipped to handle—led to your exile. 
    The guildmaster believes you acted recklessly and shamed your order, and your former comrades view you with suspicion. 
    Your deep knowledge of the woods and its creatures is your only remaining strength. You now wander the wilderness alone, trying to atone for a mistake you feel you could not have prevented.
    
    Your quest begins: You are resting by a small, hidden stream when you discover a series of unusual tracks—not animal, but human, and carelessly left. 
    You also find several snares, a sign of illegal poaching. 
    The snares have been set clumsily, indicating an amateur, but they are still a threat to the rare silver-tailed foxes of the region.
    ''',
    
    #Ranger pathway the wilderness diplomat
    
    '''
    \nYou were raised in a remote, isolated human settlement far from the nearest city. 
    Your people have always been on tense but functional terms with the nearby Glimmerwood elves. 
    You were chosen as your village’s emissary due to your unparalleled ability to navigate the dangerous borderlands and your natural affinity for respecting—and communicating with—the wild. 
    Your family's legacy is built on a tenuous peace, a peace you are desperate to maintain.
    
    Your quest begins: An elven envoy was meant to arrive in your village for a seasonal treaty renewal, but they are late. 
    A concerned elder sends you to investigate. You follow the known path and find signs of a struggle near an old, forgotten ruin. 
    The tracks suggest the envoy was not attacked by beasts, but by something more cunning and organized.
    ''',
    
    #Ranger pathway the urban huntsman
    
    '''
    \nUnlike most rangers who hail from deep forests, you grew up in the underbelly of a bustling metropolis. 
    You learned your trade not from tracking deer, but from tracking fugitives, criminals, and monstrous beasts that lurk in the city's sewers and forgotten tunnels. 
    Your skills are a unique blend of urban survival, lockpicking, and stalking, adapted for concrete jungles and crowded alleyways. 
    You are a ghost among the populace, using the city's many shadows to your advantage.
    
    Your quest begins: The city has been plagued by a series of disappearances, all concentrated in the tenement district where you grew up. 
    The local guards are useless, blaming "runaways." 
    However, your informants tell you of strange whispers in the night and a shadowy figure with glowing eyes. 
    Your old mentor, a retired city watchman, sends you a coded message requesting your help.
    '''
]

Random_Ranger_Pathway = random.choice(Ranger_Pathways)

#Game decisions

#Game classes
Game_Classes = ['Warrior', 'Mage', 'Ranger']

#Greeting
print("Hello Adventurer!\n")

#Take player name and check against min length
while True:
    Player_Name = input('What is your name? \n\n').capitalize()
    if len(Player_Name) > 3:
        break
    else:
        print('Your name must be at least four characters long\n\n')
        
#take user input for their class
while True:
    Player_Class = input(Player_Name + ' what class will you choose?\n\n' + ','.join(Game_Classes) + '\n').capitalize()
    if Player_Class in Game_Classes:
        break
    else:
        print('That is not a class. Please choose one of the three classes\n')


#start of story
if 'Warrior' in Player_Class:
    print(Random_Warrior_Pathway)
if 'Mage' in Player_Class:
    print(Random_Mage_Pathway)
if 'Ranger' in Player_Class:
    print(Random_Ranger_Pathway)

#First decision about situation
